Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Damar Industries Limited Chemwatch Hazard Alert Code: 4
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Safety Data Sheet according to the Health and Safety at Work (Hazardous Substances) Regulations 2017
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
S.GHS.NZL.EN
SECTION 1 Identification of the substance / mixture and of the company / undertaking
Product Identifier
Product name Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Chemical Name Not Applicable
Synonyms Not Available
Proper shipping name AEROSOLS
Chemical formula Not Applicable
Other means of
identification Not Available
Relevant identified uses of the substance or mixture and uses advised against
Relevant identified uses
Line/stripe marking paint.
Application is by spray atomisation from a hand held aerosol pack
Use according to manufacturer's directions.
Details of the manufacturer or supplier of the safety data sheet
Registered company name Damar Industries Limited
Address 800 Te Ngae Road, Eastgate Park, Rotorua 3042 New Zealand
Telephone +64 7 345 6007
Fax +64 7 345 6019
Website
Email info@damarindustries.co.nz
Emergency telephone number
Association / Organisation CHEMCALL CHEMWATCH EMERGENCY RESPONSE (24/7)
Emergency telephone
number(s) 0800 243 622 +64 800 700 112
Other emergency
telephone number(s) 1800 127 406 (outside New Zealand) +61 3 9573 3188
SECTION 2 Hazards identification
Classification of the substance or mixture
Classification [1] Aerosols, Hazard Category 1, Skin Corrosion/Irritation Category 2, Serious Eye Damage/Eye Irritation Category 2, Reproductive
Toxicity Category 2, Specific Target Organ Toxicity - Repeated Exposure Category 2
Legend:
1. Classified by Chemwatch; 2. Classification drawn from CCID EPA NZ; 3. Classification drawn from Regulation (EU) No
1272/2008 - Annex VI
Determined by Chemwatch
using GHS/HSNO criteria 2.1.2A, 6.3A, 6.4A, 6.8B, 6.9B
Label elements
Hazard pictogram(s)
Signal word Danger
www.damarindustries.com
Page 1 continued...
Hazard statement(s)
H222+H229 Extremely flammable aerosol. Pressurized container: may burst if heated.
H315 Causes skin irritation.
H319 Causes serious eye irritation.
H361 Suspected of damaging fertility or the unborn child.
H373 May cause damage to organs through prolonged or repeated exposure.
Precautionary statement(s) Prevention
P201 Obtain special instructions before use.
P210 Keep away from heat, hot surfaces, sparks, open flames and other ignition sources. No smoking.
P211 Do not spray on an open flame or other ignition source.
P251 Do not pierce or burn, even after use.
Precautionary statement(s) Response
P308+P313 IF exposed or concerned: Get medical advice/ attention.
P305+P351+P338 IF IN EYES: Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes. Remove contact lenses, if present and easy to do. Continue rinsing.
P314 Get medical advice/attention if you feel unwell.
P337+P313 If eye irritation persists: Get medical advice/attention.
Precautionary statement(s) Storage
P405 Store locked up.
P410+P412 Protect from sunlight. Do not expose to temperatures exceeding 50 °C/122 °F.
Precautionary statement(s) Disposal
P501 Dispose of contents/container to authorised hazardous or special waste collection point in accordance with any local regulation.
SECTION 3 Composition / information on ingredients
Substances
See section below for composition of Mixtures
Mixtures
CAS No %[weight] Name
108-88-3 1-10
Legend: 1. Classified by Chemwatch; 2. Classification drawn from CCID EPA NZ; 3. Classification drawn from Regulation (EU) No
1272/2008 - Annex VI; 4. Classification drawn from C&L; * EU IOELVs available
SECTION 4 First aid measures
Description of first aid measures
Eye Contact
If aerosols come in contact with the eyes:
Immediately hold the eyelids apart and flush the eye with fresh running water.
Ensure complete irrigation of the eye by keeping eyelids apart and away from eye and moving the eyelids by occasionally
lifting the upper and lower lids.
Seek medical attention without delay; if pain persists or recurs seek medical attention.
Removal of contact lenses after an eye injury should only be undertaken by skilled personnel.
Skin Contact
If solids or aerosol mists are deposited upon the skin:
Flush skin and hair with running water (and soap if available).
Remove any adhering solids with industrial skin cleansing cream.
DO NOT use solvents.
Seek medical attention in the event of irritation.
Inhalation
If aerosols, fumes or combustion products are inhaled:
Remove to fresh air.
Lay patient down. Keep warm and rested.
Prostheses such as false teeth, which may block airway, should be removed, where possible, prior to initiating first aid
procedures.
If breathing is shallow or has stopped, ensure clear airway and apply resuscitation, preferably with a demand valve
resuscitator, bag-valve mask device, or pocket mask as trained. Perform CPR if necessary.
Transport to hospital, or doctor.
toluene
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 2 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
Ingestion Not considered a normal route of entry.
Indication of any immediate medical attention and special treatment needed
Treat symptomatically.
SECTION 5 Firefighting measures
Extinguishing media
SMALL FIRE:
Water spray, dry chemical or CO2
LARGE FIRE:
Water spray or fog.
Special hazards arising from the substrate or mixture
Fire Incompatibility Avoid contamination with oxidising agents i.e. nitrates, oxidising acids, chlorine bleaches, pool chlorine etc. as ignition may
result
Advice for firefighters
Fire Fighting
Alert Fire Brigade and tell them location and nature of hazard.
May be violently or explosively reactive.
Wear breathing apparatus plus protective gloves.
Prevent, by any means available, spillage from entering drains or water course.
Fire/Explosion Hazard
Liquid and vapour are highly flammable.
Severe fire hazard when exposed to heat or flame.
Vapour forms an explosive mixture with air.
Severe explosion hazard, in the form of vapour, when exposed to flame or spark.
Combustion products include:
carbon monoxide (CO)
carbon dioxide (CO2)
other pyrolysis products typical of burning organic material.
SECTION 6 Accidental release measures
Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency procedures
See section 8
Environmental precautions
See section 12
Methods and material for containment and cleaning up
Minor Spills
Clean up all spills immediately.
Avoid breathing vapours and contact with skin and eyes.
Wear protective clothing, impervious gloves and safety glasses.
Shut off all possible sources of ignition and increase ventilation.
Major Spills
DO NOT exert excessive pressure on valve; DO NOTattempt to operate damaged valve.
Clear area of personnel and move upwind.
Alert Fire Brigade and tell them location and nature of hazard.
May be violently or explosively reactive.
Wear breathing apparatus plus protective gloves.
Remove leaking cylinders to a safe place if possible.
Release pressure under safe, controlled conditions by opening the valve.
Personal Protective Equipment advice is contained in Section 8 of the SDS.
SECTION 7 Handling and storage
Precautions for safe handling
Safe handling
Avoid all personal contact, including inhalation.
Wear protective clothing when risk of exposure occurs.
Use in a well-ventilated area.
Prevent concentration in hollows and sumps.
Other information Keep dry to avoid corrosion of cans. Corrosion may result in container perforation and internal pressure may eject contents of
can
Store in original containers in approved flammable liquid storage area.
DO NOT store in pits, depressions, basements or areas where vapours may be trapped.
No smoking, naked lights, heat or ignition sources.
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 3 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
Keep containers securely sealed.
Conditions for safe storage, including any incompatibilities
Suitable container
Aerosol dispenser.
Check that containers are clearly labelled.
Storage incompatibility Avoid reaction with oxidising agents
SECTION 8 Exposure controls / personal protection
Control parameters
Occupational Exposure Limits (OEL)
INGREDIENT DATA
Source Ingredient
Material
name
TWA STEL Peak Notes
New Zealand Workplace
Exposure Standards (WES)
toluene Toluene
(Toluol)
20 ppm / 75
mg/m3
377 mg/m3 /
100 ppm
Not
Available
(skin) - Skin absorption oto - Ototoxin (bio) -
Exposure can also be estimated by biological
monitoring
Ingredient Original IDLH Revised IDLH
toluene 500 ppm Not Available
Exposure controls
Appropriate engineering
controls
Engineering controls are used to remove a hazard or place a barrier between the worker and the hazard. Well-designed
engineering controls can be highly effective in protecting workers and will typically be independent of worker interactions to
provide this high level of protection.
The basic types of engineering controls are:
Process controls which involve changing the way a job activity or process is done to reduce the risk.
Enclosure and/or isolation of emission source which keeps a selected hazard "physically" away from the worker and ventilation
that strategically "adds" and "removes" air in the work environment.
Individual protection
measures, such as
personal protective
equipment
Eye and face protection
No special equipment for minor exposure i.e. when handling small quantities.
OTHERWISE: For potentially moderate or heavy exposures:
Safety glasses with side shields.
NOTE: Contact lenses pose a special hazard; soft lenses may absorb irritants and ALL lenses concentrate them.
Close fitting gas tight goggles
DO NOT wear contact lenses.
Contact lenses may pose a special hazard; soft contact lenses may absorb and concentrate irritants. A written policy
document, describing the wearing of lens or restrictions on use, should be created for each workplace or task. This should
include a review of lens absorption and adsorption for the class of chemicals in use and an account of injury experience.
Medical and first-aid personnel should be trained in their removal and suitable equipment should be readily available.
Safety glasses with side shields.
Chemical goggles. [AS/NZS 1337.1, EN166 or national equivalent]
Contact lenses may pose a special hazard; soft contact lenses may absorb and concentrate irritants. A written policy
document, describing the wearing of lenses or restrictions on use, should be created for each workplace or task.
Skin protection See Hand protection below
Hands/feet protection
Wear general protective gloves, eg. light weight rubber gloves.
No special equipment needed when handling small quantities.
OTHERWISE:
For potentially moderate exposures:
Wear general protective gloves, eg. light weight rubber gloves.
For potentially heavy exposures:
Wear chemical protective gloves, eg. PVC. and safety footwear.
Body protection See Other protection below
Other protection
No special equipment needed when handling small quantities.
OTHERWISE:
Overalls.
Skin cleansing cream.
Eyewash unit.
The clothing worn by process operators insulated from earth may develop static charges far higher (up to 100 times) than the
minimum ignition energies for various flammable gas-air mixtures. This holds true for a wide range of clothing materials
including cotton.
Avoid dangerous levels of charge by ensuring a low resistivity of the surface material worn outermost.
BRETHERICK: Handbook of Reactive Chemical Hazards.
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 4 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
Recommended material(s)
GLOVE SELECTION INDEX
Glove selection is based on a modified presentation of the:
"Forsberg Clothing Performance Index".
The effect(s) of the following substance(s) are taken into account in the
computer-generated selection:
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Material CPI
PE/EVAL/PE A
PVA A
VITON A
VITON/CHLOROBUTYL A
TEFLON B
BUTYL C
CPE C
NEOPRENE C
NEOPRENE/NATURAL C
NITRILE C
NITRILE+PVC C
PVC C
SARANEX-23 C
SARANEX-23 2-PLY C
VITON/NEOPRENE C
* CPI - Chemwatch Performance Index
A: Best Selection
B: Satisfactory; may degrade after 4 hours continuous immersion
C: Poor to Dangerous Choice for other than short term immersion
NOTE: As a series of factors will influence the actual performance of the glove,
a final selection must be based on detailed observation. -
* Where the glove is to be used on a short term, casual or infrequent basis,
factors such as "feel" or convenience (e.g. disposability), may dictate a choice
of gloves which might otherwise be unsuitable following long-term or frequent
use. A qualified practitioner should be consulted.
Ansell Glove Selection
Glove — In order of recommendation
AlphaTec 02-100
AlphaTec® 38-612
AlphaTec® 15-554
AlphaTec® Solvex® 37-185
AlphaTec® 58-008
AlphaTec® 58-530B
AlphaTec® 58-530W
AlphaTec® Solvex® 37-675
AlphaTec® 79-700
AlphaTec® 53-001
The suggested gloves for use should be confirmed with the glove supplier.
Respiratory protection
Type A Filter of sufficient capacity. (AS/NZS 1716 & 1715, EN 143:2000 &
149:2001, ANSI Z88 or national equivalent)
Where the concentration of gas/particulates in the breathing zone, approaches
or exceeds the "Exposure Standard" (or ES), respiratory protection is required.
Degree of protection varies with both face-piece and Class of filter; the nature
of protection varies with Type of filter.
Required Minimum
Protection Factor
Half-Face
Respirator
Full-Face
Respirator
Powered Air
Respirator
up to 10 x ES A-AUS -
A-PAPR-AUS /
Class 1
up to 50 x ES -
A-AUS / Class
1
-
up to 100 x ES - A-2 A-PAPR-2 ^
^ - Full-face
A(All classes) = Organic vapours, B AUS or B1 = Acid gasses, B2 = Acid gas or
hydrogen cyanide(HCN), B3 = Acid gas or hydrogen cyanide(HCN), E = Sulfur
dioxide(SO2), G = Agricultural chemicals, K = Ammonia(NH3), Hg = Mercury,
NO = Oxides of nitrogen, MB = Methyl bromide, AX = Low boiling point organic
compounds(below 65 degC)
Cartridge respirators should never be used for emergency ingress or in
areas of unknown vapour concentrations or oxygen content.
The wearer must be warned to leave the contaminated area immediately
on detecting any odours through the respirator. The odour may indicate that
the mask is not functioning properly, that the vapour concentration is too
high, or that the mask is not properly fitted. Because of these limitations,
only restricted use of cartridge respirators is considered appropriate.
Cartridge performance is affected by humidity. Cartridges should be
changed after 2 hr of continuous use unless it is determined that the
humidity is less than 75%, in which case, cartridges can be used for 4 hr.
Used cartridges should be discarded daily, regardless of the length of time
used
Generally not applicable.
Aerosols, in common with most vapours/ mists, should never be used in
confined spaces without adequate ventilation. Aerosols, containing agents
designed to enhance or mask smell, have triggered allergic reactions in
predisposed individuals.
SECTION 9 Physical and chemical properties
Information on basic physical and chemical properties
Appearance
Coloured flammable liquid with a solvent odour; not miscible with water.
Supplied as an aerosol pack. Contents under PRESSURE. Contains highly flammable hydrocarbon propellant.
Physical state Liquid
Relative density (Water =
1) 0.851
Odour Not Available
Partition coefficient noctanol / water Not Available
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 5 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
Odour threshold Not Available Auto-ignition temperature
(°C)
Not Available
pH (as supplied) Not Applicable Decomposition
temperature (°C)
Not Available
Melting point / freezing
point (°C)
Not Available Viscosity (cSt) Not Available
Initial boiling point and
boiling range (°C)
Not Available Molecular weight (g/mol) Not Applicable
Flash point (°C) -81 Taste Not Available
Evaporation rate Not Applicable Explosive properties Not Available
Flammability HIGHLY FLAMMABLE. Oxidising properties Not Available
Upper Explosive Limit (%) 10 Surface Tension (dyn/cm
or mN/m)
Not Available
Lower Explosive Limit (%) 1 Volatile Component (%vol) 84.7 (VOC = 662 g/l)
Vapour pressure (kPa) Not Available Gas group Not Available
Solubility in water Immiscible pH as a solution (1%) Not Applicable
Vapour density (Air = 1) Not Available VOC g/L Not Available
Heat of Combustion (kJ/g) Not Available Ignition Distance (cm) Not Available
Flame Height (cm) Not Available Flame Duration (s) Not Available
Enclosed Space Ignition
Time Equivalent (s/m3) Not Available
Enclosed Space Ignition
Deflagration Density
(g/m3)
Not Available
SECTION 10 Stability and reactivity
Reactivity See section 7
Chemical stability
Elevated temperatures.
Presence of open flame.
Product is considered stable.
Hazardous polymerisation will not occur.
Possibility of hazardous
reactions
See section 7
Conditions to avoid See section 7
Incompatible materials See section 7
Hazardous decomposition
products
See section 5
SECTION 11 Toxicological information
Information on toxicological effects
Inhaled
Inhalation of aerosols (mists, fumes), generated by the material during the course of normal handling, may be damaging to the
health of the individual.
There is some evidence to suggest that the material can cause respiratory irritation in some persons. The body's response to
such irritation can cause further lung damage.
The acute toxicity of inhaled alkylbenzene is best described by central nervous system depression. These compounds may also
act as general anaesthetics. Whole body symptoms of poisoning include light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, a feeling
of well-being, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, ringing in the ears, blurred or double vision, vomiting and sensations of heat,
cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, depression of breathing, and arrest. Heart stoppage may
result from cardiovascular collapse.
Inhalation of toxic gases may cause:
Central Nervous System effects including depression, headache, confusion, dizziness, stupor, coma and seizures;
respiratory: acute lung swellings, shortness of breath, wheezing, rapid breathing, other symptoms and respiratory arrest;
heart: collapse, irregular heartbeats and cardiac arrest;
gastrointestinal: irritation, ulcers, nausea and vomiting (may be bloody), and abdominal pain.
WARNING:Intentional misuse by concentrating/inhaling contents may be lethal.
Spray mist may produce discomfort
Ingestion Not normally a hazard due to physical form of product.
Considered an unlikely route of entry in commercial/industrial environments
Skin Contact
The liquid may be able to be mixed with fats or oils and may degrease the skin, producing a skin reaction described as nonallergic contact dermatitis. The material is unlikely to produce an irritant dermatitis as described in EC Directives.
Spray mist may produce discomfort
Open cuts, abraded or irritated skin should not be exposed to this material
Eye
Although the liquid is not thought to be an irritant (as classified by EC Directives), direct contact with the eye may produce
transient discomfort characterised by tearing or conjunctival redness (as with windburn).
Not considered to be a risk because of the extreme volatility of the gas.
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 6 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
Legend: – Data either not available or does not fill the criteria for classification
 – Data available to make classification
Chronic
Harmful: danger of serious damage to health by prolonged exposure through inhalation.
This material can cause serious damage if one is exposed to it for long periods. It can be assumed that it contains a substance
which can produce severe defects.
Based on experience with animal studies, exposure to the material may result in toxic effects to the development of the foetus, at
levels which do not cause significant toxic effects to the mother.
There has been some concern that this material can cause cancer or mutations but there is not enough data to make an
assessment.
Substance accumulation, in the human body, may occur and may cause some concern following repeated or long-term
occupational exposure.
Main route of exposure to the gas in the workplace is by inhalation.
Intentional abuse (glue sniffing) or occupational exposure to toluene can result in chronic habituation. Chronic abuse has caused
inco-ordination, tremors of the extremeties (due to widespread cerebrum withering), headache, abnormal speech, temporary
memory loss, convulsions, coma, drowsiness, reduced colour perception, blindness, nystagmus (rapid, involuntary eye
movements), hearing loss leading to deafness and mild dementia.
Spray Well Highway
Linemarker Aerosol (All
Colours)
TOXICITY IRRITATION
Not Available Not Available
toluene
TOXICITY IRRITATION
Dermal (rabbit) LD50: 12124 mg/kg[2] Eye (Human): 300ppm
Inhalation (Rat) LC50: >13350 ppm4h[2] Eye (Rodent - rabbit): 0.1mL
Oral (Rat) LD50: 636 mg/kg[2] Eye (Rodent - rabbit): 0.1mL - Severe
Eye (Rodent - rabbit): 100mg/30S - Mild
Eye (Rodent - rabbit): 2mg/24H - Severe
Eye (Rodent - rabbit): 870ug - Mild
Eye: adverse effect observed (irritating)[1]
Skin (Mammal - pig): 250uL/24H - Mild
Skin (Rodent - rabbit): 20mg/24H - Moderate
Skin (Rodent - rabbit): 435mg - Mild
Skin (Rodent - rabbit): 500mg - Moderate
Skin: adverse effect observed (irritating)[1]
Skin: no adverse effect observed (not irritating)[1]
Legend: 1. Value obtained from Europe ECHA Registered Substances - Acute toxicity 2. Value obtained from manufacturer's SDS.
Unless otherwise specified data extracted from RTECS - Register of Toxic Effect of chemical Substances
TOLUENE
The material may cause skin irritation after prolonged or repeated exposure and may produce on contact skin redness, swelling,
the production of vesicles, scaling and thickening of the skin.
For toluene:
Acute toxicity: Humans exposed to high levels of toluene for short periods of time experience adverse central nervous system
effects ranging from headaches to intoxication, convulsions, narcosis (sleepiness) and death. When inhaled or swallowed,
toluene can cause severe central nervous system depression, and in large doses has a narcotic effect. 60mL has caused death.
Death of heart muscle fibres, liver swelling, congestion and bleeding of the lungs and kidney injury were all found on autopsy.
Exposure to inhalation at a concentration of 600 parts per million for 8 hours resulted in the same and more serious symptoms
including euphoria (a feeling of well-being), dilated pupils, convulsions and nausea.
Acute Toxicity Carcinogenicity
Skin Irritation/Corrosion Reproductivity
Serious Eye
Damage/Irritation
STOT - Single Exposure
Respiratory or Skin
sensitisation
STOT - Repeated Exposure
Mutagenicity Aspiration Hazard
SECTION 12 Ecological information
Toxicity
Spray Well Highway
Linemarker Aerosol (All
Colours)
Endpoint Test Duration (hr) Species Value Source
Not Not Available Not Available Not Not
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 7 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
Available Available Available
toluene
Endpoint Test Duration (hr) Species Value Source
EC50 96h Algae or other aquatic plants >376.71mg/L 4
EC50 72h Algae or other aquatic plants 12.5mg/L 4
NOEC(ECx) 168h Crustacea 0.74mg/l 2
EC50 48h Crustacea 3.78mg/L 5
LC50 96h Fish 5-35mg/l 4
Legend: Extracted from 1. IUCLID Toxicity Data 2. Europe ECHA Registered Substances - Ecotoxicological Information - Aquatic Toxicity
4. US EPA, Ecotox database - Aquatic Toxicity Data 5. ECETOC Aquatic Hazard Assessment Data 6. NITE (Japan) -
Bioconcentration Data 7. METI (Japan) - Bioconcentration Data 8. Vendor Data
For Aromatic Substances Series:
Environmental Fate: Large, molecularly complex polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, or PAHs, are persistent in the environment longer than smaller PAHs.
Atmospheric Fate: PAHs are 'semi-volatile substances" which can move between the atmosphere and the Earth's surface in repeated, temperature-driven cycles
of deposition and volatilization. Terrestrial Fate: BTEX compounds have the potential to move through soil and contaminate ground water, and their vapors are
highly flammable and explosive.
Ecotoxicity - Within an aromatic series, acute toxicity increases with increasing alkyl substitution on the aromatic nucleus.
For Toluene:
log Kow : 2.1-3;
log Koc : 1.12-2.85;
Koc : 37-260;
log Kom : 1.39-2.89;
Half-life (hr) air : 2.4-104;
Half-life (hr) H2O surface water : 5.55-528;
Half-life (hr) H2O ground : 168-2628;
Half-life (hr) soil : <48-240;
Henry's Pa m3 /mol : 518-694;
Henry's atm m3 /mol : 5.94;
E-03BOD 5 0.86-2.12, 5%COD - 0.7-2.52,21-27%;
ThOD - 3.13 ; BCF - 1.67-380;
log BCF - 0.22-3.28.
Atmospheric Fate: The majority of toluene evaporates to the atmosphere from the water and soil. The main degradation pathway for toluene in the atmosphere is
reaction with photochemically produced hydroxyl radicals. The estimated atmospheric half life for toluene is about 13 hours.
DO NOT discharge into sewer or waterways.
Persistence and degradability
Ingredient Persistence: Water/Soil Persistence: Air
toluene LOW (Half-life = 28 days) LOW (Half-life = 4.33 days)
Bioaccumulative potential
Ingredient Bioaccumulation
toluene LOW (BCF = 90)
Mobility in soil
Ingredient Mobility
toluene LOW (Log KOC = 268)
SECTION 13 Disposal considerations
Waste treatment methods
Product / Packaging
disposal
Legislation addressing waste disposal requirements may differ by country, state and/ or territory. Each user must refer to laws
operating in their area. In some areas, certain wastes must be tracked.
A Hierarchy of Controls seems to be common - the user should investigate:
Reduction
Reuse
Recycling
Disposal (if all else fails)
This material may be recycled if unused, or if it has not been contaminated so as to make it unsuitable for its intended use.
DO NOT allow wash water from cleaning or process equipment to enter drains.
It may be necessary to collect all wash water for treatment before disposal.
In all cases disposal to sewer may be subject to local laws and regulations and these should be considered first.
Where in doubt contact the responsible authority.
Consult State Land Waste Management Authority for disposal.
Discharge contents of damaged aerosol cans at an approved site.
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 8 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
14.1. UN number or ID
number
14.2. UN proper shipping
name
14.3. Transport hazard
class(es)
14.4. Packing group
14.5. Environmental
hazard
14.6. Special precautions
for user
14.1. UN number
14.2. UN proper shipping
name
14.3. Transport hazard
class(es)
14.4. Packing group
14.5. Environmental
hazard
14.6. Special precautions
for user
14.1. UN number
Allow small quantities to evaporate.
DO NOT incinerate or puncture aerosol cans.
Ensure that the hazardous substance is disposed in accordance with the Hazardous Substances (Disposal) Notice 2017
Disposal Requirements
Packages that have been in direct contact with the hazardous substance must be only disposed if the hazardous substance was appropriately removed and
cleaned out from the package. The package must be disposed according to the manufacturer's directions taking into account the material it is made of. Packages
which hazardous content have been appropriately treated and removed may be recycled.
The hazardous substance must only be disposed if it has been treated by a method that changed the characteristics or composition of the substance and it is no
longer hazardous.
SECTION 14 Transport information
Labels Required
Marine Pollutant NO
HAZCHEM Not Applicable
Land transport (UN)
1950
AEROSOLS
Class 2.1
Subsidiary Hazard Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Special provisions 63; 190; 277; 327; 344; 381
Limited quantity 1000ml
Air transport (ICAO-IATA / DGR)
1950
Aerosols, flammable (engine starting fluid)
ICAO/IATA Class 2.1
ICAO / IATA Subsidiary Hazard Not Applicable
ERG Code 10L
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Special provisions A1 A145 A167 A802
Cargo Only Packing Instructions 203
Cargo Only Maximum Qty / Pack 150 kg
Passenger and Cargo Packing Instructions Forbidden
Passenger and Cargo Maximum Qty / Pack Forbidden
Passenger and Cargo Limited Quantity Packing Instructions Forbidden
Passenger and Cargo Limited Maximum Qty / Pack Forbidden
Sea transport (IMDG-Code / GGVSee)
1950
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 9 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
14.2. UN proper shipping
name
14.3. Transport hazard
class(es)
14.4. Packing group
14.5 Environmental hazard
14.6. Special precautions
for user
AEROSOLS
IMDG Class 2.1
IMDG Subsidiary Hazard Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
EMS Number F-D , S-U
Special provisions 63 190 277 327 344 381 959
Limited Quantities 1000 ml
14.7. Maritime transport in bulk according to IMO instruments
14.7.1. Transport in bulk according to Annex II of MARPOL and the IBC code
Not Applicable
14.7.2. Transport in bulk in accordance with MARPOL Annex V and the IMSBC Code
Product name Group
toluene Not Available
14.7.3. Transport in bulk in accordance with the IGC Code
Product name Ship Type
toluene Not Available
SECTION 15 Regulatory information
Safety, health and environmental regulations / legislation specific for the substance or mixture
This substance is to be managed using the conditions specified in an applicable Group Standard
HSR Number Group Standard
HSR002515 Aerosols Flammable Group Standard 2020
HSR002552 Cosmetic Products Group Standard 2020
Please refer to Section 8 of the SDS for any applicable tolerable exposure limit or Section 12 for environmental exposure limit.
toluene is found on the following regulatory lists
Chemical Footprint Project - Chemicals of High Concern List
International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) - Agents Classified by the IARC Monographs - Not Classified as Carcinogenic
New Zealand Approved Hazardous Substances with controls
New Zealand Hazardous Substances and New Organisms (HSNO) Act - Classification of Chemicals
New Zealand Hazardous Substances and New Organisms (HSNO) Act - Classification of Chemicals - Classification Data
New Zealand Inventory of Chemicals (NZIoC)
New Zealand Workplace Exposure Standards (WES)
Additional Regulatory Information
Not Applicable
Hazardous Substance Location
Subject to the Health and Safety at Work (Hazardous Substances) Regulations 2017.
Hazard Class Quantity (Closed Containers) Quantity (Open Containers)
2.1.2A 3 000 L (aggregate water capacity) 3 000 L (aggregate water capacity)
Certified Handler
Subject to Part 4 of the Health and Safety at Work (Hazardous Substances) Regulations 2017.
Class of substance Quantities
Not Applicable Not Applicable
Refer Group Standards for further information
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 10 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
Maximum quantities of certain hazardous substances permitted on passenger service vehicles
Subject to Regulation 13.14 of the Health and Safety at Work (Hazardous Substances) Regulations 2017.
Hazard Class
Gas (aggregate water capacity in
mL)
Liquid
(L)
Solid
(kg)
Maximum quantity per package for each
classification
2.1.2A 1L (aggregate water capacity)
Tracking Requirements
Not Applicable
National Inventory Status
National Inventory Status
Australia - AIIC / Australia
Non-Industrial Use Yes
Canada - DSL Yes
Canada - NDSL No (toluene)
China - IECSC Yes
Europe - EINEC / ELINCS /
NLP Yes
Japan - ENCS Yes
Korea - KECI Yes
New Zealand - NZIoC Yes
Philippines - PICCS Yes
USA - TSCA All chemical substances in this product have been designated as TSCA Inventory ‘Active'
Taiwan - TCSI Yes
Mexico - INSQ Yes
Vietnam - NCI Yes
Russia - FBEPH Yes
Legend:
Yes = All CAS declared ingredients are on the inventory
No = One or more of the CAS listed ingredients are not on the inventory. These ingredients may be exempt or will require
registration.
SECTION 16 Other information
Revision Date 10/03/2023
Initial Date 24/02/2015
SDS Version Summary
Version Date of Update Sections Updated
4.1 01/11/2019 One-off system update. NOTE: This may or may not change the GHS classification
5.1 10/03/2023 Classification change due to full database hazard calculation/update.
Other information
Classification of the preparation and its individual components has drawn on official and authoritative sources as well as independent review by the Chemwatch
Classification committee using available literature references.
The SDS is a Hazard Communication tool and should be used to assist in the Risk Assessment. Many factors determine whether the reported Hazards are Risks
in the workplace or other settings. Risks may be determined by reference to Exposures Scenarios. Scale of use, frequency of use and current or available
engineering controls must be considered.
Definitions and abbreviations
PC－TWA: Permissible Concentration-Time Weighted Average
PC－STEL: Permissible Concentration-Short Term Exposure Limit
IARC: International Agency for Research on Cancer
ACGIH: American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
STEL: Short Term Exposure Limit
TEEL: Temporary Emergency Exposure Limit。
IDLH: Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health Concentrations
ES: Exposure Standard
OSF: Odour Safety Factor
NOAEL: No Observed Adverse Effect Level
LOAEL: Lowest Observed Adverse Effect Level
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 11 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
Continued...
TLV: Threshold Limit Value
LOD: Limit Of Detection
OTV: Odour Threshold Value
BCF: BioConcentration Factors
BEI: Biological Exposure Index
DNEL: Derived No-Effect Level
PNEC: Predicted no-effect concentration
MARPOL: International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
IMSBC: International Maritime Solid Bulk Cargoes Code
IGC: International Gas Carrier Code
IBC: International Bulk Chemical Code
AIIC: Australian Inventory of Industrial Chemicals
DSL: Domestic Substances List
NDSL: Non-Domestic Substances List
IECSC: Inventory of Existing Chemical Substance in China
EINECS: European INventory of Existing Commercial chemical Substances
ELINCS: European List of Notified Chemical Substances
NLP: No-Longer Polymers
ENCS: Existing and New Chemical Substances Inventory
KECI: Korea Existing Chemicals Inventory
NZIoC: New Zealand Inventory of Chemicals
PICCS: Philippine Inventory of Chemicals and Chemical Substances
TSCA: Toxic Substances Control Act
TCSI: Taiwan Chemical Substance Inventory
INSQ: Inventario Nacional de Sustancias Químicas
NCI: National Chemical Inventory
FBEPH: Russian Register of Potentially Hazardous Chemical and Biological Substances
This document is copyright.
Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of private study, research, review or criticism, as permitted under the Copyright Act, no part may be reproduced by any
process without written permission from CHEMWATCH.
TEL (+61 3) 9572 4700.
Chemwatch: 46-8391
Version No: 5.1
Page 12 of 12
Spray Well Highway Linemarker Aerosol (All Colours)
Issue Date: 10/03/2023
Print Date: 20/01/2025
end of SDS